Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.
Cats are North America’s most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.
The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat. In fact, the breed is so ancient that its name is the Egyptian word for “cat.”
If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133 °F.
Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.
Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.
Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.
Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.
Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.
Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.
The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!
It is estimated that cats can make over 60 different sounds.
There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.
During the time of the Spanish Inquisition, Pope Innocent VIII condemned cats as evil and thousands of cats were burned. Unfortunately, the widespread killing of cats led to an explosion of the rat population, which exacerbated the effects of the Black Death.
There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.
Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.
In Ancient Egypt, when a person's house cat passed away, the owner would shave their eyebrows to reflect their grief.
A cat's nose is as unique as a human's fingerprint.
Of all the species of cats, the domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. All species of wild cats hold their tail horizontally or tucked between their legs while walking.
Cats can be right-pawed or left-pawed.
The claws on the cat’s back paws aren’t as sharp as the claws on the front paws because the claws in the back don’t retract and, consequently, become worn.
There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.
While many parts of Europe and North America consider the black cat a sign of bad luck, in Britain and Australia, black cats are considered lucky.
The average lifespan of an outdoor-only (feral and non-feral) is about 3 years; an indoor-only cat can live 16 years and longer. Some cats have been documented to have a longevity of 34 years.
According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.
Female felines are \superfecund
Cats only sweat through their paws and nowhere else on their body
The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy. He fell from the 16th floor of an apartment building (about 200 ft/.06 km) and survived.
Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by “crossing” its eyes.
The cheetah is the world's fastest land mammal. It can run at speeds of up to 70 miles an hour (113 kilometers an hour).
The oldest cat on record was Crème Puff from Austin, Texas, who lived from 1967 to August 6, 2005, three days after her 38th birthday. A cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.
Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.
Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.
A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans. Cats typically will spit, purr, and hiss at other cats.
The longest living cat on record according to the Guinness Book belongs to the late Creme Puff of Austin, Texas who lived to the ripe old age of 38 years and 3 days!
The Maine Coone is the only native American long haired breed.
The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.
The group of words associated with cat (catt, cath, chat, katze) stem from the Latin catus, meaning domestic cat, as opposed to feles, or wild cat.
Cats don’t have sweat glands over their bodies like humans do. Instead, they sweat only through their paws.
All cats have three sets of long hairs that are sensitive to pressure - whiskers, eyebrows,and the hairs between their paw pads.
British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.
A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.
Researchers believe the word “tabby” comes from Attabiyah, a neighborhood in Baghdad, Iraq. Tabbies got their name because their striped coats resembled the famous wavy patterns in the silk produced in this city.
A sexually-active feral tom-cat \owns\" an area of about three square miles and \""sprays\"" to mark his territory with strong smelling urine."""
When a domestic cat goes after mice, about 1 pounce in 3 results in a catch.
Cats take between 20-40 breaths per minute.
In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.
In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.
Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.
Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).
When your cats rubs up against you, she is actually marking you as 'hers' with her scent. If your cat pushes his face against your head, it is a sign of acceptance and affection.
A female cat is called a queen or a molly.
The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.
A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face.
Cats have 30 teeth (12 incisors, 10 premolars, 4 canines, and 4 molars), while dogs have 42. Kittens have baby teeth, which are replaced by permanent teeth around the age of 7 months.
Cats with long, lean bodies are more likely to be outgoing, and more protective and vocal than those with a stocky build.
A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.
There is a species of cat smaller than the average housecat. It is native to Africa and it is the Black-footed cat (Felis nigripes). Its top weight is 5.5 pounds.
Cats are now Britain's favourite pet: there are 7.7 million cats as opposed to 6.6 million dogs.
The oldest cat to give birth was Kitty who, at the age of 30, gave birth to two kittens. During her life, she gave birth to 218 kittens.
A cat has the power to sometimes heal themselves by purring. A domestic cat's purr has a frequency of between 25 and 150 Hertz, which happens to be the frequency at which muscles and bones best grow and repair themselves. 
The tiniest cat on record is Mr. Pebbles, a 2-year-old cat that weighed 3 lbs (1.3 k) and was 6.1 inches (15.5 cm) high.
Mountain lions are strong jumpers, thanks to muscular hind legs that are longer than their front legs.
Miacis, the primitive ancestor of cats, was a small, tree-living creature of the late Eocene period, some 45 to 50 million years ago.
Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.
Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.
Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy and healthy - some cats will purr loudly when they are terrified or in pain.
A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, but the cat has 230 (some cites list 245 bones, and state that bones may fuse together as the cat ages).
Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.
Ginger tabby cats can have freckles around their mouths and on their eyelids!
On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.
The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.
The way you treat kittens in the early stages of it's life will render it's personality traits later in life.
Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.
One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.
Most cats adore sardines.
In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.
The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled since 1930 - from 8 to 16 years.
Tylenol and chocolate are both poisionous to cats.
Cats can predict earthquakes. We humans are not 100% sure how they do it. There are several different theories.
The average lifespan of an outdoor-only cat is about 3 to 5 years while an indoor-only cat can live 16 years or much longer.
Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.
A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.
The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).
The female cat reaches sexual maturity within 6 to 10 months; most veterinarians suggest spaying the female at 5 months, before her first heat period. The male cat usually reaches sexual maturity between 9 and 12 months.
The heaviest cat on record is Himmy, a Tabby from Queensland, Australia. He weighed nearly 47 pounds (21 kg). He died at the age of 10.
Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman’s body and a cat’s head.
Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.
In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.
Tabby cats are thought to get their name from Attab, a district in Baghdad, now the capital of Iraq.
Since cats are so good at hiding illness, even a single instance of a symptom should be taken very seriously.
I don't know